Create naming schema section about CPE, SWID and PURL (#720)
OWASP/wstg: document/5-Reporting/1-Naming_Schemes.md

> # Vulnerability naming schemes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Vulnerability Naming Schemes
```

> # Vulnerability Naming Schemes

Reviewer: This file should be 2- not 1-

> With a constantly growing number of IT assets to administrate, the security practitioners had required new and more powerful tools to perform automated and large scale analysis. Thanks to those software the attention can be focused on the more creative and intellectually challenging problems. Unfortunately, allowing the vulnerability assessment tools, antivirus software and intrusion detection systems to communicate its not an easy job. It requires to overcome several technical complications, requiring an standardized way to identify each software flaw, vulnerability or configuration issues identified. The lack of this interoperability capabilities can cause inconsistencies during the security assessment, confusing reporting and extra correlation efforts among other problems that will produce an important waste of resources and time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With a constantly growing number of IT assets to administer, security practitioners require new and more powerful tools to perform automated and large scale analysis. Thanks to software attention can be focused on the more creative and intellectually challenging problems. Unfortunately, having vulnerability assessment tools, antivirus software, and intrusion detection systems communicate its not an easy job. It has resulted in several technical complications, requiring a standardized way to identify each software flaw, vulnerability, or configuration issues identified. The lack of this interoperability capabilities can cause inconsistencies during the security assessment, confusing reporting, and extra correlation efforts among other problems that will produce an important waste of resources and time.
```

> A naming scheme is a systematic methodology used to identify each one of those vulnerabilities in order to facilitate clear identification and information shearing. This goal is achieved by the definition of a unique, structured and software-efficient name to each vulnerability. There are multiple schemes used to succeeded on this effort, the more common and used ones are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A naming scheme is a systematic methodology used to identify each one of those vulnerabilities in order to facilitate clear identification and information sharing. This goal is achieved by the definition of a unique, structured, and software-efficient name for each vulnerability. There are multiple schemes used to facilitate this effort, the most common are:
```

- Common Platform Enumeration (`CPE`)
- Software Identification Tag (`SWID`)
- Package URL (`PURL`)

## Software Identification Tag (SWID)

> Software Identification Tag (`SWID`) is an International Organization for Standardization's standard defined by the ISO/IEC 19770-2:2015. It is used primarily to identify installed software and is the preferred format of the NVD in front of `CPE`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Software Identification Tag (`SWID`) is an International Organization for Standardization's standard defined by in ISO/IEC 19770-2:2015. It is used primarily to identify installed software and is the preferred format of the NVD in front of `CPE`.
```

> preferred format of the NVD 

"...it is NIST's perferred format for the National Vulnerability Database (NVD) over the previous standard `CPE`." ? Or something like that? (So that NVD is spelled out as it's used a few times here, and that it's clear NIST is the authority which maintains it. :man_shrugging: )

Author: I have pushed a new text to replace this sentence to explain the relation between `swid` and `cpe`. I hope this new text will clarify your questions. If it is so, I would flag this as resolved.

> Each `SWID` tag is represented as a standardized XML format. A `SWID` tag is composed for three groups of elements. The first block composed by 7 predefined elements required to be considered a valid tag. The optional block provides a set of 30 possible predefined elements that the tag creator can use to provide reliable and detailed information. Finally, the `Extended` group of elements provides the opportunity to the tag creator to define any non predefined elements required to accurately define the described asset. The high level of granularity provided by `SWID`, not only provides the capability to describe a given product of software, but also it's specific status on the software lifecycle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each `SWID` tag is represented as a standardized XML format. A `SWID` tag is composed for three groups of elements. The first block composed by 7 predefined elements required to be considered a valid tag. Followed by an optional block which provides a set of 30 possible predefined elements that the tag creator can use to provide reliable and detailed information. Finally, the `Extended` group of elements provides the opportunity for the tag creator to define any non-predefined elements required to accurately define the described the asset. The high level of granularity provided by `SWID`, not only provides the capability to describe a given product of software, but also it's specific status on the software lifecycle.
```

I haven't looked this up so please make sure the edits maintain the accuracy of the description.

> define the described the asset

Would "software", "product", or something else be a better fit than "asset"?

Author: I used the word "asset" to avoid the repetition of the "software" too many times, but you are right that "software" is more accurate and should be use on this case.

Author: The corrections from your suggested change had been added on the commit `817fbcdcdcafa17d8ff491352efb7e4c77ea725e`. I flag this conversation as resolved.

### Examples

- _ACME Roadrunner Service Pack 1_ patch created by the ACME Corporation for the already installed product identified with the `@tagId`: _com.acme.rms-ce-v4-1-5-0_:

`<SoftwareIdentity xmlns="http://standards.iso.org/iso/19770/-2/2015/schema.xsd" name="ACME Roadrunner Service Pack 1" tagId="com.acme.rms-ce-sp1-v1-0-0" patch="true" version="1.0.0"><Entity name="The ACME Corporation" regid="acme.com" role="tagCreator softwareCreator"/><Link rel="patches" href="swid:com.acme.rms-ce-v4-1-5-0"> ...</SoftwareIdentity>`

> - Red Hat Enterprise Linux version 8 for x86-64 architecutre:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Red Hat Enterprise Linux version 8 for x86-64 architecture:
```

`<SoftwareIdentity
xmlns="http://standards.iso.org/iso/19770/-2/2015/schema.xsd" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:schemaLocation="http://standards.iso.org/iso/19770/-2/2015/schema.xsd http://standards.iso.org/iso/19770/-2/2015-current/schema.xsd" xml:lang="en-US" name="Red Hat Enterprise Linux" tagId="com.redhat.RHEL-8-x86_64" tagVersion="1" version="8" versionScheme="multipartnumeric" media="(OS:linux)">`

## Common Platform Enumeration (CPE)

> The Common Platform Enumperation scheme (CPE) is a structured naming scheme for information technology systems, software, and packages maintained by `NVD`. Commonly used in conjunction with the Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures identification codes (e.g. `CVE‑2017‑0147`). Despite being considered a deprecated scheme in benefit of `SWID`, `CPE` is still widely used by several security solutions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Common Platform Enumeration scheme (`CPE`) is a structured naming scheme for information technology systems, software, and packages maintained by `NVD`. Commonly used in conjunction with the Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures identification codes (e.g. `CVE‑2017‑0147`). Despite being considered a deprecated scheme superseded by `SWID`, `CPE` is still widely used by several security solutions.
```

Defined as a Dictionary of registered values provided by `NVD`. Each `CPE` code can be defined as a well-formatted name or as a URL. Each value MUST follow this structure:

- _cpe-name_ = "cpe:/" component-list
- _component-list_ = part ":" vendor ":" product ":" version ":" update ":" edition ":" lang
- _component-list_ /= part ":" vendor ":" product ":" version ":" update ":" edition
- _component-list_ /= part ":" vendor ":" product ":" version ":" update
- _component-list_ /= part ":" vendor ":" product ":" version
- _component-list_ /= part ":" vendor ":" product
- _component-list_ /= part ":" vendor
- _component-list_ /= part
- _component-list_ /= empty
- _part_ = "h"/"o"/"a" = string
- _vendor_ = string
- _product_ = string
- _version_ = string
- _update_ = string
- _edition_ = string
- _lang_ LANGTAG / empty
- _string_ = *( unreserved / pct-encoded )
- _empty_ = ""
- _unreserved_ = ALPHA / DIGIT / "-" / "." / "_" / " ̃"
- _pct-encoded_ = "%" HEXDIG HEXDIG
- _ALPHA_ = %x41-5a / %x61-7a ; A-Z or a-z
- _DIGIT_ = %x30-39 ; 0-9
- _HEXDIG_ = DIGIT / "a" / "b" / "c" / "d" / "e" / "f"

> - _LANGTAG_ = cf. [RFC5646]

Reviewer: Do you think it might make more sense to have this as a code block with triple backticks?

### Examples

- Microsoft Internet Explorer 8.0.6001 Beta (any edition): `wfn:[part="a",vendor="microsoft",product="internet_explorer", version="8\.0\.6001",update="beta",edition=ANY]` which binds to the following URL: `cpe:/a:microsoft:internet_explorer:8.0.6001:beta`.
- Foo\Bar Big$Money Manager 2010 Special Edition for iPod Touch 80GB: `wfn:[part="a",vendor="foo\\bar",product="big\$money_manager_2010", sw_edition="special",target_sw="ipod_touch",target_hw="80gb"]`, which binds to the following URL: `cpe:/a:foo%5cbar:big%24money_manager_2010:::~~special~ipod_touch~80gb~`.

## Package URL (PURL)

> Package URL standardizes how software package metadata is represented so that packages can universally be located regardless of what vendor, project, or ecosystem the packages belongs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Package URL standardizes how software package metadata is represented so that packages can be universally located regardless of what vendor, project, or ecosystem the packages belongs.
```

> A purl is a valid `RFC3986` ASCII string defnid URL composed seven elements. Each of them is separated by a defined character in order to make it easily manipulated by software.

Reviewer: Should "PURL" generally appear in uppercase? Is there a standard we should adhere to?

`scheme:type/namespace/name@version?qualifiers#subpath`

> The defintion for each components is:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The definition for each component is:
```

- _scheme_: URL scheme compilant constant value of "pkg". (**Required**).

- _type_: package type or package protocol such as maven, npm, nuget, gem, pypi, etc. (**Required**).

- _namespace_: type-specific value to a package prefix such as it's owner name, groupid, etc. (Optional).

- _name_: name of the package. (**Required**).

- _version_: package version. (Optional).

- _qualifiers_: extra qualifying data for a package such as an OS, architecture, a distro, etc. (Optional).

> - _subpath_: extra subpath within a package, relative to the package root. (Optional).

Reviewer: I don't think this list needs to be double spaced. Other's don't seem to be.

### Examples

- Curl software, packaged as a .deb Debian Jessie package for an i386 architecture: `pkg:deb/debian/curl@7.50.3-1?arch=i386&distro=jessie`
- Docker image of Apache Casandra signed with the SHA256 hash 244fd47e07d1004f0aed9c: `pkg:docker/cassandra@sha256:244fd47e07d1004f0aed9c`

> ### Known implementations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Known Implementations
```

> - _Golang_: <https://github.com/package-url/packageurl-go>
> - _.NET_: <https://github.com/package-url/packageurl-dotnet>
> - _JVM_: <https://github.com/package-url/packageurl-java>, <https://github.com/sonatype/package-url-java>
> - _Python_: <https://github.com/package-url/packageurl-python>
> - _Rust_: <https://github.com/package-url/packageurl-rs>
> - _JS_: <https://github.com/package-url/packageurl-js>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- _Golang_: <https://github.com/package-url/packageurl-go>
- _.NET_: <https://github.com/package-url/packageurl-dotnet>
- [packageurl-java](https://github.com/package-url/packageurl-java], [package-url-java](https://github.com/sonatype/package-url-java)
- [Python](https://github.com/package-url/packageurl-python)
- [Rust](https://github.com/package-url/packageurl-rs)
- [JavaScript](https://github.com/package-url/packageurl-js)
```

Reviewer: Maybe move this to the references section?

> ## Recommendation usages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Recommendation Uses
```

| USE  | RECOMMENDATION  |
|---|---|
| Client or Server Application | CPE or SWID |
| Container | PURL or SWID |
| Firmware | CPE or SWID* |
| Library or Framework (package) | PURL |
| Library or Framework (non-package) | SWID |
| Operating System | CPE or SWID |
| Operating System Package | PURL or SWID |

> _Note:_ Due to the deprecated status of `CPE`, it's recomended that the new projects implement `SWID` when they need to decide between both methods. Even though, `CPE` is known to be a widely used naming schema on currently active projects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Note: Due to the deprecated status of `CPE`, industry recommended seems to be that the new projects implement `SWID` when they need to decide between the two methods. Even though `CPE` is known to be a widely used naming schema within current active projects and solutions.
```

> between the two methods

Would "standards" or "schemes" be better than "methods"?

> ## Additional information

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## References
```

To be consistent with the [template](https://github.com/OWASP/wstg/blob/master/template/999-Foo_Testing/2-Template_Explanation.md#references)

> - [NISTIR 8060 - Guidelines for the Creation of Interoperable Software Identification (SWID) Tags](https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/ir/2016/NIST.IR.8060.pdf)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [NISTIR 8060 - Guidelines for the Creation of Interoperable Software Identification (SWID) Tags (pdf)](https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/ir/2016/NIST.IR.8060.pdf)
```
